Inspired by a Boston based tech company called Spoiler Alert, Stay Fresh is a tool to help users save money, reduce food waste, and prevent a cluttered pantry by sending a weekly email to remind them what pantry items are set to expire each week. It uses technology similar to what can be found in Spoiler Alert's stack.

Stay Fresh is MERN stack web based application that uses SendGrid to email users who provide their email address on signup. The authentication process is handled by PassportJS and Google OAuth2.


### Initial Set Up

- Run `npm install` in both this directory *and* in the `client` directory.
- In the [config](./config) directory, create a file called `dev.js` and add it to [gitignore](.gitignore). This is where you will store api keys and secrets.

### Running Development Servers

Run `npm run dev` in this directory. This uses [concurrently](https://www.npmjs.com/package/concurrently) to run the frontend and backend servers in the same console.

### Set Up - Configuring Keys

##### Cookie Key
Make one up. It's just a string of random characters.

##### Google OAuth2
In your [google developer console](https://console.developers.google.com), start a new project. Click `Enable APIs` and search for `Google+`. Following the instructions, add your `googleClientSecret` and `googleClientID` to `./config/dev.js`, and add your development domains to your authorized domains.

##### MongoURI
Creat an account with [MongoDB](https://cloud.mongodb.com), create a new cluster with AWS in your region and name it. Follow the set up instructions and add the mongoURI to `./config/dev.js`.
NOTE: Copy the autogenerated password before moving forward. Once you proceed, you will not be able to see this password again.

##### SendGrid
Creat an account with [SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com/docs/for-developers/sending-email/libraries/). Create a project and add the API key to `./config/dev.js`


Stay Fresh will soon be open to accepting contributions. In the meantime, make an issue if you have one.